Hello and welcome back to the course on artificial intelligence.
And today we're talking about Markov Decision Processes or MDD.
Let's have a look what we've got today.
So last time we stopped on the concept of a map.
So because we have calculated the values based on the Belmont equation we can derive this map for our
agent on this maze.
And basically what that means is wherever the NJ agent starts so let's say it starts over there.
It knows exactly which steps to take in order to get to the finish line.
So it just goes up up.
Right.
And done.
And so the question here is is that it.
Is it really that simple is reinforcement learning really that you know for the lack of a better word
boring.
It's it's you once you have the map that's it all you have to do is you're done.
You just follow the map.
Well the reality is that it's not actually that simple.
And that's a good thing because it makes this course more interesting for us and we can actually solve
much more complex problems.
So this is where a mark of a process is coming.
But first we're going to talk about two things we don't into a deterministic search versus non deterministic
search.
So let's talk about the concept of deterministic search.
This is our agent in the maze and deterministic search means that if the agent decides to go up then
what will happen is with 100 percent probability it will go up.
That's exactly what will happen.
There's no other options.
Once it says go up or clicks the up arrow it will go up.
Now on the other hand non deterministic search is when our agent says it wants to go up.
They are actually couple of options.
For example there could be three options and we're going to be looking at example where there are three
options but it doesn't have to be limited to three before.
It could be different depending on depends on the problem the randomness could be different but in our
case it could be three options with an 80 percent chance he does go up.
But then with a 10 percent chance when he was to go up he'll actually go to the left just because because
that's how the environment works that's the world that he lives in.
And if another 10 percent chance he'll actually go right and in this case he'll fall into the firepit.
So that is how it all works.
That's an example of a non deterministic sure search a stochastic process and what the point of this
is is to make a more realistic model of what could actually happen even in a real world in a real world
type of problem because very rarely do you get situations like this when when you do something and it
happens exactly that way.
And even if you think about it in terms of games that say you've got an agent playing Pacman well not
always Is it the case that if he's standing in the square he goes up he will get the same exact result
every time he will.
He will indeed go up but it may be in one case he won't get eaten by a ghost in another case he will
get eaten by a ghost.
So as you can see there's some randomness to it because it depends on how the ghosts are moving and
they don't always move the same way.
They don't always start in the same locations.
So it's very logical is very it is fair that there is some random is there's something that is not under
the control of the agent and that is this is just a way for us to represent that in order for us to
learn how we can deal with it and how that affects the Belmont equation how it affects the whole reinforcement
learning process.
But at the same time the randomness is of course not limited to if you go up there's a 10 percent chance
you'll go right or attempts and just go left or if you go down there the temperatures chances go right
or left or if you're right there's attempts and chances go up or down sort of limited to where you're
going to end up sometimes you might have a problem that is exactly sometimes the probabilities might
be different.
Sometimes the randomness might boil down to something else it might be boiled boiled down like an example
of Pacman of the ghosts eating you or not eating you or it might boil down to something different for
instance like there is there's like if the agent is playing Doom and then there's something like a monster
which is going to shoot him in one case another came there's like there's a probability with which it
will get shot and with which it won't get shot and so on.
So something that is out of the control the agents something I cannot predict.
That's what we're modelling here in non deterministic search and this is where we have directly approached
two new concepts of Markov processes and or a Markov process and mark a mark Markov decision process.
So let's have a look at these and you know how much I don't like to put definitions and lots of text
on the sides but in this case it is necessary for us to go through them.
So let's have a look a stochastic process has a mark of property.
If the conditional probability distribution of future states of the process conditional on both past
and present state depends only upon the present state not on the sequence of events that preceded it.
A process with this property is called a market very complex definition and kind of like giving credit
a little bit not only contradicts itself but feels like it contradicts itself so here is as conditional
both a positive presence that depends only upon but at the same time it only depends upon the present
state.
So don't get too bogged down in that.
I'll break it down in simple terms so a mark of property is when your future states.
So not just your choice but the whole thing your choice and the environment.
It will only like the results of a world of you of the action you take in that environment will only
depend on where you are now.
It will not depend on how you got there and that's it.
So as a matter of property and a process which has this property is called the market process.
So in.
To put it into an example so if your agent is here and if he goes if he decides to go up he might go.
He in our case in our non deterministic search example you actually might go left and right or the right.
That's because we have that sticker still city inside our environment.
We have that randomness inside our environment so anything one of these three might happen.
But the key here is that this is a mark of process because we don't care how you got here.
He could have come from the Top End and up here he could have come from the left and get up here he
could have come from the bottom ended up here.
He could have like play and moved around here like a hundred thousand times and then got here.
It does not matter what happened before.
Only what matters is what which state is he in now.
And so that the probabilities of going left or right or up they will always be the same.
If he is in this state now and so that's basically just saying doesn't matter what happened before we
are here now.
This is the state you're in and don't go figure that state doesn't just mean where he's standing.
The state is the state of the whole of the whole of the agent in the environment.
So is that like monsters on the right or the monsters on the left or is the ghost coming from the top
of the bottom whatever state you're in now.
Doesn't matter how you got there it doesn't matter how it how it all came to be that you're there in
that state now what will happen in the future is only determined by the state you're in now plus the
actions you will take then plus of course the randomness that is overlaid on top of that.
So that's a mark of process and a market decision process or a MVP or market decision processes provide
a mathematical framework for model modelling decision making in situations where outcomes are partly
random and partly under control over decision maker.
So important I understand that Markov decision processes processes are different different whole concept
Markov process to a Markov process they're kind of like a mathematical framework so but at the same
time I thought it was important for us to understand what a Markov process is because I think it still
helps in the understanding of a market market decision process so a market decision process is.
This is exactly what we've been discussing up till now.
So that the agent lives in this environment where it has control like room previously had full control
of the of what's going on.
But now it has a little bit less control.
It can decide to go up but it actually knows.
Okay so if I go up there's an 80 percent chance I'll go up there's attempts and chances on the left
temps and chances go right.
So not everything is fully under its control.
There is some randomness in this environment.
That's exactly what a Markov Decision Processes and Markov decision process is the framework that the
agent will use in order to understand what to do in this environment.
So we've got an environment with some stochastic cities some randomness and now the agent has to choose
for instance should go up down left or right has to make that decision.
It doesn't know what to do and in order to make that decision is going to apply a framework is going
to be using Markov decision process in order to make that decision what's going to happen where it's
going to go.
And so basically this environment that poses this problem it is referred to the mark of decision process.
So it's the framework that agent using at the same time the environment is referred to that the agent
is operating in a market decision process environment.
And so basically here we've got two concepts.
We've got the mark of process is the way this environment is designed.
That the part that does the work.
What happens from where you are now doesn't depend on the past.
And at the same time we've got the market decision process is the framework that the agent is going
to be using in order to solve this environment.
And the good news is that the Markov decision process on that framework that we're talking about is
actually just an add on to our Belman equation is the Belmont equation.
But just a bit more sophisticated.
So let's have a look at that.
This is our Belman equation so far.
It's the maximum of all possible actions.
So the value over being an estate is the maximum of all possible actions that you can take from that
state.
The maximum is taken from the reward that you would get by taking that action in that state plus a discount
factor times the value of the next state which is s prime.
So that's what we've had so far.
Now because we have some randomness in our whole process this this pie will change because we don't
actually know which state will end up and we don't know what s prime will be will it be if we're going
up will it be up or we'll be left or will be right.
So we actually have to place this with the expected value of the next state.
So here we're going to replace this.
So there's three possible states we can end up in.
And so we're going to replace that with some value there.
That state has a value of as one prime.
That said it has a v of s prime two as to prime.
And this state has a value of V of three.
Brian.
So now we're going to multiply the state that we actually are intending to go into by 80 percent because
that's our probability of getting to that state plus the probability of getting into this state 10 percent
plus approval of getting in state.
So this is just our expected value.
So if from statistics if we take the expected value of getting into the state that we'll get into it
kind of like the average.
What's what's the average of what will get and then we replace that over here then we get the equation.
No it jumps very quickly and just because there's a is bigger but if you look at it carefully you'll
see exactly the same thing.
You've got Max here Max here and then you've got R of S and a r of S and a here you've got gamma you've
got gamma.
And then finally here you've got V.
So you knew exactly it was a deterministic search you knew which states you'll get into.
Now you don't know which state you'll get into instead of taking V.
You're taking the expected value of the states.
You'll get into or of the future state or just in simpler terms you're just taking the average of what
you'll get into.
So you know if like it was a in a in like for as a 30 plus 3 percent chance it will be like this plus
this plus is divide by three basically.
But in this case it's not it's not exactly like average average it's it's a weighted average because
of the probabilities here.
So here you've got the probability of it when you're in this state you take this action of getting into
state as prime time the value as prime.
And some across all this primes that you could possibly get into over here.
So exactly what we have three here one two three add them up multiply by parolees add them up.
Same here.
One two three.
Multiply them by both probabilities and add them up.
And that is your new Belmont equation.
Congratulations.
This is what we're going to be working with going forward.
And that is the framework that is used in Markov Decision Processes.
So that is the framework that solves this that agents used to solve this whole stochastic non deterministic
search problem where there is random events that are happening that they cannot control.
So it's much more complex.
But as you can see because we built up slowly to it now we already know about this we know about there's
worry about this.
We know about this.
We know what they are.
So all we did is we just introduced this part over here because there are probabilities involved in
the action or the consequences of your action and on deterministic they are based on some probabilities.
And so there we go.
That's how a mark of decision process works.
And the underlying equation behind it.
Once again it is something that is more that more closely resembles the real world problems real world
scenarios or even game scenarios because not everything is straightforward.
There is some randomness of all involved and not always will.
Taking an action in a certain state will always not will not always will it lead to the same outcome.
And so this is what we're going to be dealing with going forward and that's going to make things way
more interesting.
So hopefully you're excited for that and excited to see what's going to come next.
And in the meantime I've found a really cool paper for you to have a look at this time.
It's a very applied paper.
So this was actually really interesting to read through.
It's called a survey of applications of mark of decision processes processes and it was ruled by white.
In 1993 there's link and it'll show you examples of where market decision processes actually are used
to model real life scenarios.
I think I was very excited by this.
I was impressed by some examples so population harvesting for instance.
So let's say you have some fish and you know what the population of the fishing is you need to decide
how many fish can we fish out this year and what.
So that's your current state.
That's the action that you're taking.
How many can we've shot at this year.
So what are the odds.
What are the possible outcomes of that.
How many fish will we have next year.
How many official here we have the year after and the year after and so on.
And it's not deterministic because it's not like if you take out and about 90 percent of the population
the next year you will have you know back to 100 percent it's not not exactly surrealistic.
There are certain random factors involved which are out of our control and therefore we have to understand
what's what's going to happen we have to model what's going to happen.
That's where a market decision process is used agriculture.
There's an example like something like harvesting crops how much crops do we harvest how much.
How many do we not harvest.
Another one which I looked at finance and investment like an insurance company needs to decide how much
of its funds it will invest in any I think day or year or some period of time and there are certain
factors that are of its control.
For instance you know the market movements it doesn't know what can happen.
So it needs to actually model that somehow and a market decision process is used for that.
So here you can see lots and lots of examples.
And this is the number of examples given I think for each one.
And even sports two examples for sports and epidemics and motor insurance claims inspections and maintenance
and repair.
It's also very interesting have a look at that.
Just to give you an understanding of hey this is not just all made up stuff hypothetical and the Matrix
type of thing.
This is actually a real world scenario.
So it'll give you a better understanding and this is what we talked about in the promotional video for
this course that or description of the course that we're going to inspire you and your intuition to
give you ideas for how to use A.I. in real life.
This is your opportunity.
Look at this paper to understand.
Okay so we're gonna be dealing with Markov decision process is going forward.
That's really cool.
What do they look like in real life.
And this possibly could trigger some ideas for you how you could apply A.I. in the future to make the
world a better place and we'd be super happy about that.
We'd be super happy.
If you could use what you learned in this course to make the world a better place we're failing.
How fantastic would that be.
So on that note I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial.
I look forward see you next time.
And until then enjoy a.